[SPEAKER_00]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_00]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_00]: You won't find a prouder Aggie than Joe Brewster.
[SPEAKER_00]: Being an Aggie is in his blood.
[SPEAKER_00]: His father, his grandfather, his great uncle, his uncle, his sons, all fellow Aggies.
[SPEAKER_00]: And like his father, Colonel Olin Finley Brewster, Joe Brewster served his country in combat.
[SPEAKER_00]: Olin Brewster, a decorated soldier of the Battle of the Bulge in World War II.
[SPEAKER_00]: Joe Brewster, a ground infantry fighter in the jungles of Vietnam and Cambodia.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's our pleasure to have Lieutenant Joe Brewster as our guest on Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_00]: Joe, it's great to have you here.
[SPEAKER_00]: First, I want you to talk about Olin Finley Brewster, your dad.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know you told me one time that there was probably not many officers that were more written about in World War II than Olin Brewster.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about your dad and what he did.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, my dad was a major
[SPEAKER_01]: His promise came about in the Battle of the Bulge.
[SPEAKER_01]: Pretty much the Germans tried their counteroffensive in December of 1944, trying to split the American Allied Forces to get to Antwerp.
[SPEAKER_01]: And for their success, they had to go through several major road intersections.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my dad was responsible for an area south of Antwerp, an area called Parker's Crossroads.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they held this intersection for two or three days, keeping the German divisions back.
[SPEAKER_01]: But being right in the middle of a core boundary, one core unit pulled back to reset their lines.
[SPEAKER_01]: The other core unit did not, which my dad was still left forward.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the only reason he had to pull out was the Germans got in and around behind him.
[SPEAKER_01]: So he was given the orders to pull back the best way he could.
[SPEAKER_01]: Pulling forward, he lost several tanks.
[SPEAKER_01]: Pulling backwards, he lost several tanks.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he realized at that point in time that he wasn't going to be able to get his men out successfully unless they went ahead and destroyed the rest of their vehicles.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he was able to march all his men out on Christmas Eve there in December 1944.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know it's a story that you're very proud of, and you're very proud of him.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know you lost him not too many years ago, but he was a person who you were very interested in his service and he in yours.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, he brought us kids up understanding two things.
[SPEAKER_01]: Number one, we were going to be Aggies.
[SPEAKER_01]: My brother and I ended up being third-generation Aggies, come through NM.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he also told us that we had an obligation to our country.
[SPEAKER_01]: and we would be soldiers.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my brother just retired, full colonel, stationed down at Fort Sam down in Santon.
[SPEAKER_01]: My military career didn't last as long as my dad's and my brother's.
[SPEAKER_01]: After spending a couple years in the active army and then a couple years, two or three years in inactive reserves, my service came to an end.
[SPEAKER_01]: Not a day goes by that I don't think about it, but my dad pretty much set the pattern which us boys had to follow.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's talk about the path that brought you not only to A&M, but then into the service.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was a little bit unusual back in the mid-60s when you came to A&M.
[SPEAKER_00]: There was a brand new program then that still exists today.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about sort of the program that sent you through and to the military at A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, my brother was already here at A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: He ended up being class of 66.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was my turn to come to A&M, but my freshman year, I didn't quite have the monies to...
[SPEAKER_01]: come to the fine university here on the Brazos.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I ended up spending a couple years at Temple Junior College over in Temple.
[SPEAKER_01]: At that time, I thought my dream of getting into core here at A&M had come to an end, but A&M started this new program called a two-year program where you could go to a summer camp between your sophomore and junior year in college.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then you come in as a junior in the Corps, but naturally with freshman privileges.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then you go to a second summer camp between your junior and senior year.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so because of this, it enabled me to go ahead and get my commission at Texas A&M University in a two-year time frame instead of a four-year time frame.
[SPEAKER_00]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_00]: And you were a distinguished military student here at Texas A&M, is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir, that's correct.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I believe what system in that is, like I say, being a third generation Aggie, I knew a lot about A&M.
[SPEAKER_01]: I knew a lot about the Corps.
[SPEAKER_01]: I knew what was expected of me.
[SPEAKER_01]: Also, my dad being in the military, I had gone out to Fort Hood with him on numerous occasions as a kid, so I understood the military ways.
[SPEAKER_01]: The first camp I went to between my sophomore and junior year taught me basic military, not only to be able to march, be able to fire a weapon.
[SPEAKER_01]: I did things prior to coming into my junior year that a lot of the juniors in the Corps had not got to do yet.
[SPEAKER_01]: So when it came time to teach in dismounted drill and doing things with weapons, I was often used as an instructor.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then between my junior and senior year, I excelled at 4C Oklahoma and so that gave me an opportunity to be nominated for and receive this DMS and later DMG.
[SPEAKER_00]: It also gave you the opportunity to choose your specialty in the Army or at least narrow it down and I know you said you
[SPEAKER_00]: You put down infantry, armored, and artillery, and you got infantry.
[SPEAKER_00]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, back then, you were required to put one combat branch, which would have been armored or infantry, artillery.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then you put down two service branches, quartermaster, transportation.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was a little on the gung-ho side back then, so I wanted to go combat, so I put them down infantry, armored, and artillery.
[SPEAKER_01]: Broke my dad's heart because he was armored, but I knew that I wanted to go infantry because Vietnam was going at the time.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I couldn't see fighting in the jungles of Vietnam sitting in a half track or a tank.
[SPEAKER_01]: I thought my chances were a lot better as an infantryman.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so that's the way I selected.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Army, based on that great wisdom, gave it to me.
[SPEAKER_00]: You went to Ranger School.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, I love Ranger School.
[SPEAKER_01]: I knew that when I came through infantry officer basic at Fort Benning that, again, my path was towards Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I felt like the best insurance policy to have at the time is to take some of the better schools that the Army was offering.
[SPEAKER_01]: I did the airborne jump school.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was great for just getting out and running every morning and jumping out of an airplane, but I couldn't see its full usefulness in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the ranger school taught small unit tactics, and it taught you what it was like to fight in jungle, where you spent two weeks in Dahloneca, Georgia doing mountain warfare, but then they took us down to Elgin Air Force Base, the jungles down in Florida.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we spent two and a half weeks of maneuvering down there, and that gave me a really good experience of what I could expect when I got to Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: You went to Fort Riley, Kansas for three months, I guess, for your final training before you went in country.
[SPEAKER_00]: 1970, I guess this was toward the latter years, actually, of the war.
[SPEAKER_00]: 1970, first week or first or second week of January, you were in country and you served for 11 months.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about when you first went there.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I'm going to let you just sort of go ahead and sort of talk about your 11 months in service in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know you talk about
[SPEAKER_00]: that you had a guardian angel on you many times.
[SPEAKER_00]: So just go with it and talk about your service in Nam.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, one thing that I found out real quickly in Vietnam is it doesn't matter how good you are, a lot of it determines on how lucky you can also be.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I often refer to it as being the guardian angel.
[SPEAKER_01]: My first day out in the field, I was flown out with another lieutenant who was also being assigned to the same battalion I was being assigned to.
[SPEAKER_01]: And also in a helicopter was a full colonel who happened to also be a Presbyterian minister.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I felt like if you had to go into combat, that was probably the best person in the world to go in with.
[SPEAKER_01]: As I exited the helicopter at my first forward base, there was an officer waiting for me out on the pad, and I thought that was my welcome committee.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I found out that was the lieutenant whose place I was taking.
[SPEAKER_01]: I thought and was understanding that I would work with him up to a week to get a better grasp of what to expect of my troops and my platoon as well as the area of operation we'd be working in.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, he let me know immediately as he was boarding the helicopter that he thought his luck had run out and he was going back to the rear base and I was on my own.
[SPEAKER_01]: My dad had always told me that
[SPEAKER_01]: look to your NCOs.
[SPEAKER_01]: They are the backbone of the Army, and thank goodness my platoon had a crusty old NCO, E7, and he took me under his wing and he said, you know, Lieutenant, if you'll listen to me, I can get you through this.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so for the first two or three weeks, I pretty much listened to him, and I felt like a lot of my success came from him.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I was thrown into it almost immediately.
[SPEAKER_01]: After meeting my company commander and was introduced to my platoon and met a lot of the platoon members, we were out the second night that I was in country.
[SPEAKER_01]: and we had river boats that the Navy provided us to take us up, and we were forming an umbrella protection for Saigon.
[SPEAKER_01]: We were trying to interdict both forces as well as supplies coming in from Cambodia by either water routes or trail, jungle trails, and so we were supposed to interdict them by setting up ambushes at night and preventing them from moving through the area freely.
[SPEAKER_01]: My first night, we were set up, and normally you set up either a linear ambush with rear security or an L-shaped ambush with rear security, depending on the terrain and what you're trying to ambush, a trail or a waterway.
[SPEAKER_01]: As we got in late, though, we did not have an opportunity to check out the terrain, so we just formed a wagon-wheel type of ambush, figuring any direction, 360, we'd be ready for it.
[SPEAKER_01]: After about an hour on the ground, hour and a half on the ground, I was tapped by one of the members of my...
[SPEAKER_01]: unit saying, Lieutenant, they're out there.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I said, who's out there?
[SPEAKER_01]: He informed me that it sounded like VC or MVA had found our position and he suggested we go on full alert.
[SPEAKER_01]: About that time, RTO also punched me and said, Lieutenant, the Toon Sergeant on the other side of the ambush says that he has movement out in front of him.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I called my NCL and said, hey, this is my first night out here.
[SPEAKER_01]: What do you recommend?
[SPEAKER_01]: He said, well, go to a full mad minute, which meant that everybody in our ambush would fire immediately at the same time for one full minute, which we did.
[SPEAKER_01]: And sure enough, the NVAVC were out in front of us.
[SPEAKER_01]: We received return fire.
[SPEAKER_01]: We suffered four or five casualties at that time.
[SPEAKER_01]: We ourselves only found a few blood trails of the NVAVC.
[SPEAKER_01]: It had no KIA that we could count for them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Since it was so late at night, since we could not move to another position successfully and safely, we were extracted that night.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then we continued to do the same routine over the next couple of weeks.
[SPEAKER_00]: The mad minute.
[SPEAKER_00]: This is your first really full night in command of the platoon.
[SPEAKER_00]: And how did you feel?
[SPEAKER_00]: I mean, it must have been rather mind boggling for you to realize where you were and that this was the real thing.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's amazing how with all the training that I had done, both through infantry officer basic, ranger and airborne, that immediately when the first rounds were fired,
[SPEAKER_01]: that I wasn't even aware of what I was doing.
[SPEAKER_01]: There was a mechanism that kicked in.
[SPEAKER_01]: My infantry platoon leader just said, quote, this is how it's done.
[SPEAKER_01]: You have studied it over and over again.
[SPEAKER_01]: Follow your intuition.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your training will not take you the wrong direction.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I noticed that throughout my nine or ten months that I was out in the field, that every time a situation occurred, I'd fall back on that training, and the training was always successful.
[SPEAKER_01]: It worked.
[SPEAKER_00]: You talked to me earlier about that these troops in Vietnam, sometimes that they had to endure, for lack of a better word, several different leaders during a year because the officers were moved in and moved out of Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: They might get three or four.
[SPEAKER_00]: So you were placed in that situation to where you were a brand new leader for troops that had been there maybe a couple of tours.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about that and what that was like and the help that you got sort of being placed in that situation.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, it seemed that part of being in Vietnam was to stop communism, but it was also a training base for our young soldiers.
[SPEAKER_01]: The platoon leaders, the first and second lieutenants, as well as the captains, was in a testing area.
[SPEAKER_01]: They all, or a majority of them, were planning on making the Army, regular Army.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they were all preparing for that big war that at some time in the future we thought we might have with either China or Russia.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they were trying to give as many young officers a chance to be in command.
[SPEAKER_01]: So when I got in country, most of the officers were being rotated out in three or four months.
[SPEAKER_01]: But Nixon in 1970 said, hey, we're going to start withdrawing troops.
[SPEAKER_01]: So fewer and fewer troops were going.
[SPEAKER_01]: So instead of me spending a normal three or four months in line, I ended up spending nine.
[SPEAKER_01]: The problem with this rotation and everything is that you have an entry between 40 or 45 men.
[SPEAKER_01]: You have an officer who comes in there and only spends three months, and he may be a West Point graduate, and that particular officer has his own way of doing things.
[SPEAKER_01]: After three months, he would be moved to the rear or to another position, and you might get an officer coming in who graduated from Arkansas ROTC or Texas A&M University.
[SPEAKER_01]: Each one wanted to do it their way, and each time the platoon had to suffer through this gradual learning again.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, the only common base we had was the NCOs, in that if they had been in the military long enough, and if you normally had an E-6, E-7, they'd been in the military for probably five to ten years.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they were the constant that went with each platoon.
[SPEAKER_01]: They would take the lieutenant aside and say, that will work if you're back stateside, it's not going to work here, lieutenant.
[SPEAKER_01]: And if you had a good lieutenant, he would listen to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: And pretty much that's how we handled our situation for the first two months, one month, until I got my feet on the ground.
[SPEAKER_01]: And after that, the constant was me.
[SPEAKER_01]: And being allowed to stay with my unit for up to eight or nine months, it benefited our unit.
[SPEAKER_01]: We were more cohesive during the nine, ten months that I was in the field.
[SPEAKER_01]: A lot of the casualties that occurred in Vietnam occurred from booby traps.
[SPEAKER_01]: We got out in the field and we moved through jungles, we moved through water areas, we moved through Mitchelon rubber plantation.
[SPEAKER_01]: One thing we did, we moved with stealth.
[SPEAKER_01]: We moved, we didn't go anywhere unless we took our time.
[SPEAKER_01]: We paid attention to the environment around us.
[SPEAKER_01]: We would move, we would stop, we would listen, we would smell.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then we'd move and do the same thing over and over again every 15 minutes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And if you let your troops know what you were going to do that day, a lot of the units failed to tell the private or the point man, hey, this is our objective for the day.
[SPEAKER_01]: Most of them just said go in that direction for about 2,000 to 3,000 meters, and then we're going to ambush tonight.
[SPEAKER_01]: I would try to make sure that down to my lowest man, they knew what we were going to do that day.
[SPEAKER_01]: They felt like we were part of the decision-making.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so that if, in fact, we hit anything along our way,
[SPEAKER_01]: from point A to point B, they would say it was expected.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was told by the lieutenant that this is what to expect and they were more educated when it came to grasping the situation.
[SPEAKER_00]: Lieutenant Brewster, you brought some pictures.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know you have a lot of photographs from your time in Vietnam and we are going to show some of them here as a matter of fact that Lieutenant Brewster has.
[SPEAKER_00]: Go ahead and talk about the picture.
[SPEAKER_00]: What are we looking at there?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, this is a road from Conten.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's you on the right, by the way.
[SPEAKER_01]: That is me on the far right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we are pulling a road security for trucks coming from Conten over to the Cambodian border.
[SPEAKER_01]: And our job was to parallel this road and make sure the NVC...
[SPEAKER_01]: NVC or the NVA and the Viet Cong were not setting up ambushes or putting mines out in the road.
[SPEAKER_01]: So this is sort of a rest break.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had probably been moving since 5 in the morning.
[SPEAKER_01]: We stopped probably getting ready to take a lunch break and then move on down the road.
[SPEAKER_01]: There'd probably be another unit probably a half mile behind us doing the same thing to keep the NVA and VC from coming in behind my unit and planting mines before the trucks started bringing in their supplies to the fire support base.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, let's move on to the next one.
[SPEAKER_00]: Show a little muscle there.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's a little muscle here, but this is the we're having an officer's meeting here.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're getting ready to head out on the choppers out into the jungle.
[SPEAKER_01]: And those are the lieutenants.
[SPEAKER_01]: And our company commander had just given us our operation orders.
[SPEAKER_01]: And typically us officers would, after the company commander left, us lieutenants would sort of put our heads together, and we would discuss the operation, and if anybody had any great ideas or expectations of what we should know, the most experienced officer would say, look, we've been in this area before, we're going back to it again, and this is what you need to know about it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so we're just discussing what we're getting ready to do for the next two or three days.
[SPEAKER_00]: Lieutenant Brewster there in the middle.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's move on to the next photograph.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now you're having some fun with some of the kids there in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, we were pretty much day in, day out in the jungles working ambushes.
[SPEAKER_01]: But every once in a while, we had the enjoyment of getting to pull protection for a village.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we enjoyed working with the village people, and they enjoyed us.
[SPEAKER_01]: Typically, we would have in our company of three platoons, we'd have two platoons pulling an umbrella
[SPEAKER_01]: security on the outside of the village and one of the platoons would stay inside the village and help maybe build buildings, build desks for the small kids.
[SPEAKER_01]: We provided entertainment for them and here we're just taking the opportunity to let the kids know that we were friendly, we were easy going, we were not big giants who were going to hurt them.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so we're doing a game of splits here and the kids found it very entertaining.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's you in the back there doing the major splits there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Here's a couple of other lieutenants.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was third platoon leader.
[SPEAKER_01]: The gentleman in the middle was second platoon, and the gentleman on the far left was first platoon.
[SPEAKER_01]: In Cambodia, both of them got shot.
[SPEAKER_01]: Both survived.
[SPEAKER_01]: The one in the middle came back for a second time.
[SPEAKER_01]: His injuries weren't so bad, but then about a month and a half later, two months later, he also got hit a second time.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was the fortunate one who managed to always stay out of harm's way.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's that Gordon Angel I said was on my shoulder.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was in the same mix as they were.
[SPEAKER_01]: When we went into Cambodia, there was three-line platoon officers.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had a forward observer and a commander, and of those officers, I was the only one who came back and escaped.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, let's move on to the next photograph, another photograph of you.
[SPEAKER_01]: That is a rice paddy during the summertime.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's dried up, so they apparently don't have rice in there right now growing.
[SPEAKER_01]: During the wet seasons, monsoons, that would be filled up with water probably up to your ankle.
[SPEAKER_01]: And typically, even during wet or dry time of season, you never walk on the berms or the high ground you see in the background.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's where the NVA or VC would set their booby traps.
[SPEAKER_01]: We would walk through the water or through the flat part there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, what we're doing here is that we're probably getting ready to go in after spending a week or two out pulling ambushes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we always like to make sure that we shoot through our old
[SPEAKER_01]: shells, our old weaponry, cleaning out your weapons.
[SPEAKER_01]: You don't want to take back bullets that maybe got rusted or maybe got jammed or hit around while you were going through the jungle getting off helicopters.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we would pretty much clean our weapons and then resupply ourselves when we got back to the base camp.
[SPEAKER_01]: And actually we wouldn't use all our ammunition at this point because you never know on the way back
[SPEAKER_01]: to your base camp, you might get shot down.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we would shoot maybe half our load here to clear our weapon.
[SPEAKER_01]: Plus, we'd cross train.
[SPEAKER_01]: I would be shooting M79, getting used to it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Another guy would move over from his rifle over to the machine gun.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we'd cross train so that if one person went down, somebody else could also use that weapon.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, let's move on to the next one.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, this was actually back in the States during training in Colorado, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: I just thought it was a great picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, it is, and you can tell that was not Vietnam, because look at the starched uniform.
[SPEAKER_01]: You would not be wearing that over in the jungles of Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: When I came out after two years of the Army, I went into the reserves, and I didn't have to go active reserve because I had spent time in Vietnam, so I was under the title of inactive reserve, which meant that if I was needed,
[SPEAKER_01]: at some summer camp for two weeks, I could be called up.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, this was a mech unit that came in out of Nebraska who did their train over at Fort Carson, Colorado.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they called me up to come in.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were a platoon leader and they had me go up there and spend two weeks.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so I was working with a mech unit.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's an armored personnel carrier.
[SPEAKER_01]: And what you do, it's a little bit different than doing infantry.
[SPEAKER_01]: In infantry, you're normally very close together when you're moving through jungles.
[SPEAKER_01]: You space out a little bit more in the open area.
[SPEAKER_01]: When you're working with mechanized units, you're looking more at conventional warfare, something you would expect to do if you were in Germany fighting in that terrain as opposed to Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, let's move on to the next one.
[SPEAKER_00]: This next picture was actually taken from a book
[SPEAKER_00]: that you supplied the picture.
[SPEAKER_00]: I'm gonna let you talk about the book real quick, because we're running short on time, but this is a book written by a current professor at Blinn College about Cambodia.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that is you on the right.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: That is correct.
[SPEAKER_01]: About five, six, seven years ago, I was reading one of the local paper here, and there was someone inquiring if you were an officer or an enlisted man that had fought in Cambodia during 1970, please get in touch with this person.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I thought about it for a couple of days and gave him a call.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a lady who actually grew up in Cambodia.
[SPEAKER_01]: Her dad had been Secretary of State or Secretary of Defense, and she grew up in the timeframe of the Kilmer Rouge, who took over Cambodia in the early 1970s through 75, the Killing Fields time.
[SPEAKER_01]: And she wanted to find out some information about the American military activities in Cambodia.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I was able to provide her some information, which when the book was written, she did mention my name once or twice, which I felt very gratified for.
[SPEAKER_01]: But she was a great lady.
[SPEAKER_01]: She spent five, six years writing this book.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's now published and can be picked up at a lot of local bookstores.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is where we're coming down from Conten, heading down towards the Cambodian border.
[SPEAKER_01]: We spent one or two days pulling security for transportation trucks along this route, and then we went into Cambodia itself to fight.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's move on to, I believe, our last picture.
[SPEAKER_00]: And there's your dad, and there you are sitting next to him.
[SPEAKER_00]: And this was a time that he was honored in Louisiana, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about this.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, back in the 1960s, during the Cuban crisis, my dad, the 49th Army, was called up, headquartered out of Temple.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was a battalion commander.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they were sent down to Fort Polk, Louisiana.
[SPEAKER_01]: And all the armored units of the 49th were called down there.
[SPEAKER_01]: He spent a full year down there.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so this was probably about six, seven, eight years ago.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were going to honor a plaque to the 49th, and he was requested to come down there, and he was sort of the honoree.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it gave me an opportunity to spend time with my dad, hear more of the war stories that I heard as a kid.
[SPEAKER_01]: And as you get older and you've experienced that war situation, you've been there, you can ask questions a little bit differently than if you've never seen combat.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I was able now to go in there and find out specifically what did it feel like?
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, a lot of generic terms you ask, you know, what was it like in a war?
[SPEAKER_01]: And a person will give you a generic answer.
[SPEAKER_01]: But if you ask a specific question, like when that shrapnel buzzes by your head or you take casually, your hand is holding down a wound until the medics get there.
[SPEAKER_01]: What went through your head?
[SPEAKER_01]: I was now able to discuss that with him in sort of a soldier to soldier way.
[SPEAKER_00]: Joe, you were awarded the Bronze Star Medal on two occasions for your action on two consecutive days, May 8th and 9th, 1970.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about what happened those two days.
[SPEAKER_01]: We went into Cambodia, and up until then, most of our combat was small unit back in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: We got into Cambodia as a larger units fighting each other.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we had...
[SPEAKER_01]: landed our helicopters.
[SPEAKER_01]: My opportunity was the first opportunity to go in.
[SPEAKER_01]: And as soon as we hit the ground, helicopters left, we were hit from the wood line by the NVA.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were attacking a cache that was very important to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had to fight our way into the jungle for the next two or three days.
[SPEAKER_01]: We unsuccessfully kept trying to take that cache and that particular bunker complex, which we finally did take.
[SPEAKER_01]: During that time frame, I spent a lot of time in the front, giving directions, pulling wounded men back, and the Army thought that maybe I deserved a Bronze Star for that.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm sure there were a lot of soldiers that did a lot more than I did that deserved a Bronze Star, didn't get it, but somehow I got nominated for it.
[SPEAKER_01]: On the next day or two later, we were bedwacked along one of the rivers there in Cambodia, getting ready to do another mission.
[SPEAKER_01]: and the Navy came down one of the rivers there, spotted us, and they had been ambushed several times the previous day, and they were a little bit on the touchy side, and apparently our higher command did not warn them that we were there.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they immediately opened fire with us with quad 50s, and they had an automatic 79 grenade launcher, and we started taking severe casualties.
[SPEAKER_01]: And someone had to get communication with them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We did not have their radio frequency.
[SPEAKER_01]: So someone had to get up and actually motion to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We were Americans.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I guess I drew the black bean because I ended up being the one that did it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And apparently, again, somebody thought I deserved something for that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Again, medals should have been more adjusted than deserved elsewhere, I'm sure.
[SPEAKER_00]: We need to move along, but with about a month left in your service, you were sent to the 1st Cavalry, but then eventually sent back to the 25th.
[SPEAKER_00]: And talk about the message that you got that the Chief of Staff wanted to see you and what he had to say to you.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, the 25th Infantry Provision received orders they were going to return home in probably November, October, November of 1970.
[SPEAKER_01]: because I still had a little over a month left in country, I was not able to ship home with a lot of the troops.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was sent to the first Cav, figuring I still had a month and a half left, and I could be of service to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Went to their one-week school, and they realized, hey, you're a little still shoe sharp.
[SPEAKER_01]: You won't benefit us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And by that time, I got orders to return back to the 25th Infantry.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, as soon as I hit the ground, there was a gentleman standing there.
[SPEAKER_01]: A lieutenant said that the chief of staff, full colonel, wanted to visit with me.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I entered his office, and normally a lieutenant does not want to face the chief of staff.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's normally something very, very wrong.
[SPEAKER_01]: In this case, he had my file in front of him.
[SPEAKER_01]: He indicated, well, you went through Ranger School, you went through Airborne, received a few medals.
[SPEAKER_01]: He said, you're exactly the person I'm looking for.
[SPEAKER_01]: I said, oh, no, not one of these deep, sort of black missions they're going to send me on.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it ended up being that he needed someone to take the vision colors of the 25th Infantry back to Schofield Barracks in Hawaii.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they felt like that I was the right person to do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was quite an honor for me to receive the orders to do this.
[SPEAKER_01]: I trained with about 30 other gentlemen.
[SPEAKER_01]: We brought all the regimental colors in.
[SPEAKER_01]: Several of these troops had been Medal of Honor winners.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I got to hear their stories.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were quite the heroes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then in the middle of December, we flew into Schofield Barracks there in Hawaii, met by a band.
[SPEAKER_01]: Then the next couple of days, the colors were transferred back to the 25th there in Hawaii.
[SPEAKER_00]: I know that was quite an honor for you.
[SPEAKER_00]: And it's something that probably of all your memories of your Vietnam experience, it was that at the end, bringing back the colors that is maybe the most meaningful to you.
[SPEAKER_01]: It is one that I'll always remember.
[SPEAKER_01]: I just that a lot of the soldiers that went to Vietnam did not have the great fortune I had of returning back to the United States.
[SPEAKER_01]: Most of the soldiers came back home and most of them were not met at the airport.
[SPEAKER_01]: There were no bands or anybody congratulating them.
[SPEAKER_01]: And yet here I was coming back with a band waiting for me.
[SPEAKER_01]: Congratulations.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so that made me feel extremely well thought of.
[SPEAKER_01]: Like, you know, my time in service was appreciated.
[SPEAKER_00]: Joe Brewster, thank you very much for your service, and thank you for being here.
[SPEAKER_00]: I appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Growing up in Temple, Joe Brewster was sure of two things.
[SPEAKER_00]: He would be an A&M cadet, and he would be a soldier.
[SPEAKER_00]: He served both roles with distinction, and that's definitely a family trait.
[SPEAKER_00]: We thank Joe Brewster and all veterans for their service, and we thank our underwriter, First National Bank.
[SPEAKER_00]: For more stories of veterans, be sure to read Brazos Valley Heroes every Sunday in The Eagle.
[SPEAKER_00]: For Lieutenant Joe Brewster, I'm Tom Turberville.
[SPEAKER_00]: We'll see you next time on Veterans of the Valley.
Thank you.